Provision a certificate to an application through a sidecar (#6554)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2020/proxy-cert/index.md

---
title: Provision a certificate and key to your application through files [Experimental]
description: Provision a certificate and key to your application through files.
publishdate: 2020-02-20
attribution: Lei Tang (Google)
keywords: [certificate,sidecar]
target_release: 1.5
---

{{< boilerplate experimental-feature-warning >}}

Istio sidecars can obtain certificates through
the secret discovery service.

> For an application without a sidecar to get a certificate,

Reviewer: I think this needs to explain what this is used for. Why would an application not have a sidecar? Why would such an application need a certificate? Explain why Prometheous is a good example, before you describe the example.

You should also clarify how the "application without a sidecar" is different from the application with a sidecar deployed to provision the key and certificate. Both would seem to be "with a sidecar", but the second one is not handling traffic, I presume. I think you need to explain that.

Author: The PR has been revised to explain the use case and address the comments.

---

> title: Provision a certificate and key for an application without sidecars [Experimental]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Provision a certificate and key for an application without sidecars
```

Author: Done.

description: A mechanism to acquire and share an application certificate and key through mounted files.
publishdate: 2020-03-25
attribution: Lei Tang (Google)
keywords: [certificate,sidecar]
target_release: 1.5
---

{{< boilerplate experimental-feature-warning >}}

Istio sidecars obtain their certificates using
the secret discovery service.
A service in the service mesh may not need (or want) an Envoy sidecar
to handle its traffic. In this case, the service will need
to obtain a certificate itself if it wants to connect to other TLS or mutual TLS secured services.

> For a service with no need of a sidecar to manage its traffic, a sidecar can nevertheless still be

Reviewer: ```suggestion

For a service with no need of a sidecar to manage its traffic, a sidecar can nevertheless still be
```

Author: Done.

---

> title: Provision a certificate and key to your application through files [Experimental]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Provision a certificate and key for an application without sidecars [Experimental]
```

Author: Done.

> description: Provision a certificate and key to your application through files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: A mechanism to acquire and share an application certificate and key through mounted files.
```

Author: Done.

> publishdate: 2020-02-20

Reviewer: ```suggestion
publishdate: 2020-03-25
```

Author: Done.

attribution: Lei Tang (Google)
keywords: [certificate,sidecar]
target_release: 1.5
---

{{< boilerplate experimental-feature-warning >}}

> Istio sidecars can obtain certificates through

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Istio sidecars obtain their certificates using
```

Author: Done.

the secret discovery service.

> A service in the service mesh may not need an Envoy sidecar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A service in the service mesh may not need (or want) an Envoy sidecar
```

Author: Done.

> to handle its TLS/mTLS connections. Instead, the service wants

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to handle its traffic. In this case, the service will need
```

Author: Done.

> to obtain a certificate and handle the TLS/mTLS connections itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to obtain a certificate itself if it wants to connect to other TLS or mutual TLS secured services.
```

Author: Done.

> For a service not needing a sidecar to get a certificate,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a service with no need of a sidecar to manage its traffic, a sidecar can nevertheless still be
```

Author: Done.

> it may deploy a sidecar only to provision the private key and certificates through

Reviewer: ```suggestion
deployed only to provision the private key and certificates through
```

Author: Done.

> the CSR flow from the CA and share the certificate with the service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the CSR flow from the CA and then share the certificate with the service
```

Author: Done.

through a mounted file in `tmpfs`.

> We use Prometheus as an example application to show provisioning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have used Prometheus as our example application for provisioning
```

Author: Done.

> a certificate through such mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a certificate using this mechanism.
```

Author: Done.

In the example application (i.e., Prometheus), a sidecar is added to the

> Prometheus deployment when the flag `.Values.prometheus.provisionPrometheusCert`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prometheus deployment by setting the flag `.Values.prometheus.provisionPrometheusCert`
```

Author: Done.

> is set to `true` (this flag is set as true by default in an Istio installation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to `true` (this flag is set to true by default in an Istio installation).
```

Author: Done.

> The sidecar requests for a certificate and shares the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This deployed sidecar will then request and share a
```

Author: Done.

certificate with Prometheus.

The key and certificate provisioned for the example application

> are mounted to the directory `/etc/istio-certs/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are mounted in the directory `/etc/istio-certs/`.
```

Author: Done.

> To list the key and certificate provisioned for the example application,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can list the key and certificate provisioned for the application by
```

Author: Done.

> run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
running the following command:
```

Author: Done.

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl exec -it `kubectl get pod -l app=prometheus -n istio-system -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}'` -c prometheus -n istio-system -- ls -la /etc/istio-certs/
{{< /text >}}

> The output from the above command should include non-empty key and certificate files. The following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output from the above command should include non-empty key and certificate files, similar to the following:
```

Author: Done.

> is an example output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done.

{{< text plain >}}
-rwxr-xr-x    1 root     root          2209 Feb 25 13:06 cert-chain.pem
-rwxr-xr-x    1 root     root          1679 Feb 25 13:06 key.pem
-rwxr-xr-x    1 root     root          1054 Feb 25 13:06 root-cert.pem
{{< /text >}}

> If you want to use the mechanism in this article to provision a certificate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to use this mechanism to provision a certificate
```

Author: Done.

> to an application, you can imitate the example application and add a sidecar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for your own application, take a look at our
```

Author: Done.

> like [the one in the example application]({{< github_blob >}}/manifests/istio-telemetry/prometheus/templates/deployment.yaml)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Prometheus example application]({{< github_blob >}}/manifests/istio-telemetry/prometheus/templates/deployment.yaml) and simply follow the same pattern.
```

Author: Done.

---
title: Provision a certificate and key to your application through files [Experimental]
description: Provision a certificate and key to your application through files.
publishdate: 2020-02-20
attribution: Lei Tang (Google)
keywords: [certificate,sidecar]
target_release: 1.5
---

{{< boilerplate experimental-feature-warning >}}

Istio sidecars can obtain certificates through
the secret discovery service.
For an application without a sidecar to get a certificate,
it may deploy a sidecar to provision the private key and certificates through
the CSR flow from the CA and share the certificate with the application
through a mounted file in `tmpfs`.
This tutorial uses Prometheus as an example application to show provisioning

> a certificate through such mechanism.

Reviewer 2: I think what is missing in the blog is why someone should do this vs a sidecar injector to inject the sidecar and have the certificates fetches by istio-agent from istiod.  What is the value to go through the complicated steps as described in this blog?

Reviewer 2: Sorry this may be obvious to you but not for me.  Don't we have sidecar injector today to inject sidecar to services like productpage?  Why someone would need to use this manual approach vs that?

Reviewer 2: cc @frankbu who may know more about the background

Author: The sidecar injector injects a sidecar for a service. The reason that someone would use this manual approach is to provision a certificate for the service (e.g., Prometheus) itself.

## Getting started

> Install Istio with the `global.mtls.enabled` option set to false

Reviewer 2: no need to mention these 2 flags as they are defaults

and `global.mtls.auto` set to true. For example, using the demo configuration profile:

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl manifest apply --set profile=demo

> --set values.global.mtls.auto=true

Reviewer 2: true or false... you said false earlier.
